AGW-3771: Re write domain proxy support doc. (#175)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/proxy-domain-support.adoc

= Domain Support for Mule 4 API Proxies

Mule runtime engine enables you to share common resources among other Mule applications by defining these resources within a Mule Domain. Other Mule applications can then inherit this domain.

> This way, all of your Mule applications can access the xref:4.1@mule-runtime::shared-resources.adoc[resources]declared in your domain. +

Author: It's not for all Mule applications, but the ones configured to leverage it.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

 All dependencies defined in the Domain, override any dependency defined in the API Proxy (older or newer). For example, if the API Proxy depends on a functionality defined in the HTTP transport, but is referencing a domain using
 an older version of said transport, you will have errors at runtime.

=== Usage

API Proxy listeners should inherit your Proxy domain HTTP Listener configuration by using a listener configuration as defined in the target domain. HTTP listener configuration example:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:listener-config name="api-proxy-listener-http">
  <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" protocol="HTTP"/>
</http:listener-config>
----
For example, for HTTP listener configuration defined in the domain, the listener setup on the API Proxy should be:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:listener config-ref="api-proxy-listener-http" path="${proxy.path}" responseStreamingMode="AUTO">
...
----

=== Configuration
==== Setting up an API Proxy in API Manager to use a Domain

> The following steps apply when a Hybrid deployment target is selected:

Reviewer 2: Should be valid when downloading proxy as well

Author: Line removed.

= Domain Support for Mule 4 API Proxies

> 

Reviewer 3: INSTRUCTIONS FOR EDIT

can you please review this PR:

> Mule runtime engine enables you to share common resources among other Mule applications by defining these resources within a Mule Domain. Other Mule applications can then inherit this domain.

Reviewer 3: Domain > domain

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

This way, all of your Mule applications can access the xref:4.1@mule-runtime::shared-resources.adoc[resources]declared in your domain. +

> Because every auto-generated proxy is a pre-configured Mule application, you can also define multiple API Proxies under the same domain. You install a domain when you auto-deploy multiple proxies that usr the same host and port, but have a different path. +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because every auto-generated proxy is a preconfigured Mule application, you can also define multiple API proxies under the same domain. You install a domain when you auto-deploy multiple proxies that use the same host and port but have a different path. +
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

== API Proxies and Domains

> API Manager enables you to automatically configure an API Proxy to inherit an existing domain. All API proxies, use one of the following listener configurations when referencing a domain:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
API Manager enables you to automatically configure an API proxy to inherit an existing domain. All API proxies use one of the following listener configurations when referencing a domain:
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

** For inbound HTTP endpoints: `api-proxy-listener-http`
** For inbound HTTPs endpoints: `api-proxy-listener-https`

> API domains are not supportef by Runtime Fabric or CloudHub support API domains. In an API domain, you may define several dependencies. Make sure that the versions of the dependencies defined in the domain have the same or greater version than the ones defined in the API Proxy that references the domain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
API domains are not supported by Runtime Fabric or CloudHub support API domains. In an API domain, you may define several dependencies. Make sure that the versions of the dependencies defined in the domain have the same or later version than the ones defined in the API proxy that references the domain.
```
Should the first sentence be separate from the rest of the para? Not sure how it is related.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> All the dependencies defined in the domain override the dependency defined in the API Proxy (older or newer). For example, if the API Proxy depends on a functionality defined in the HTTP transport, but is referencing a domain using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the dependencies defined in the domain override the dependencies defined in the API proxy (older or newer). For example, if the API proxy depends on a functionality defined in the HTTP transport but is referencing a domain using
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

 an older version of that transport, you will have errors at runtime.

=== Usage

> API Proxy listeners must inherit your Proxy domain HTTP Listener configuration by using a listener configuration as defined in the target domain. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
API proxy listeners must inherit your proxy domain HTTP listener configuration by using the listener configuration defined in the target domain. 
```
Please reread to be sure technical meaning is not altered.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> HTTP Listener Configuration Example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
HTTP listener configuration example:
```
Consider using a complete sentence that ends in a colon to introduce this example and uses wording that connects it to the sentence above it.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:listener-config name="api-proxy-listener-http">
  <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" protocol="HTTP"/>
</http:listener-config>
----

> For example, for HTTP listener configuration defined in the domain, the listener setup on the API Proxy should be:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For an HTTP listener configuration defined in the domain, the listener setup on the API proxy should be:
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:listener config-ref="api-proxy-listener-http" path="${proxy.path}" responseStreamingMode="AUTO">
...
----

=== Configure API Proxy Domain

> To configure an API Proxy to use a domain:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To configure an API proxy to use a domain:
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . Select *API Manager > API Administration* > *Manage API*, and either import the API from Exchange, or from your local machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Select *API Manager > API Administration* > *Manage API*, and import the API from either Exchange or your local machine.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . Specify an API name, asset type, and version and asset versions.

Reviewer 3: Does this mean an API name, an API asset type, an API version, and API asset versions?

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . In *Managing Type* select *Endpoint with Proxy*, and then in *Proxy Deployment Target* select *Hybrid*.

Reviewer 3: Best practice is to make each step one user action.
```suggestion
. In *Managing Type*, select *Endpoint with Proxy*, and then in *Proxy Deployment Target*, select *Hybrid*.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . In *Mule Version* select the *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above* check mark.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. In *Mule Version*, select the *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above* checkbox.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . In *Implementation URI*, type in your API URI. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. In *Implementation URI*, type your API URI. 
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . Additionally specify:

Reviewer 3: Additionally in *Implementation URI*?
If so, change lines 47-50 to...:

. In *Implementation URI*, type the following:
* Your API URI
* A TLS context, which...
* The path....

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

.. A TLS Context, which is required if you plan to have xref:building-https-proxy.adoc[HTTPs] communications. 
.. The path for your implementation URI if it is different than `/`.
. Click the *Advanced Options* drop-down list.

> . Select your schema (HTTP/HTTPS) and optionally specify an API Instance label.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Select your schema (HTTP or HTTPS) and optionally specify an API instance label.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . Specify the port for your API Proxy inbound connections, and optionally set a response timeout.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Specify the port for your API proxy inbound connections, and optionally set a response timeout.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . Select the *Reference User Domain* check-mark.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Select the *Reference User Domain* checkbox.
```
[One selects a checkbox by providing a checkmark.]

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . Click *Save*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Click *Save*:
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

+
image::proxy-domain-support-bb01e.png[]

> After saving the API Proxy configuration, you can:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After saving the API proxy configuration, you can do either of the following:
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> * Deploy the API Proxy to the selected target (*Settings*, under *Deployment Configuration*).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Deploy the API proxy to the selected target (*Settings*, under *Deployment Configuration*).
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> or

Reviewer 3: omit
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> * Download the API Proxy (*Actions*) and edit it in Anypoint Studio to customize your target domain before deploying it to the selected target.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Download the API proxy (*Actions*) and edit it in Anypoint Studio to customize your target domain before deploying it.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> ==== Configuring a Domain for the First Time

Reviewer 3: When I see a title at the fourth or fifth level, I wonder if we have organized the topic properly.
Take a look at the title outline and confirm that peer topics are presented at the same level and that subtopics are truly subordinate to their container topics.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

To configure a domain for the first time:

> . Get a domain artifact:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Obtain a domain artifact in one of the following ways:
```
GLOBALLY reword to avoid presenting options separated by the word "Or" on its own line.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

. Download the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/gateway-proxy-domain/[API Gateway domain template]
+

> or

Reviewer 3: omit

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . Develop your own custom domain following the naming convention when defining your listener configurations: +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Develop your own custom domain, using the naming convention you used when defining your listener configurations: +
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

** `api-proxy-listener-http`: The listener configuration for HTTP communications. +

> ** `api-proxy-listener-https`: The listener configuration for HTTPS communications.

Reviewer 3: remove periods

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> . Copy the Maven artifact to `../domains/` folder of your running runtime distribution. Eg. `gateway-proxy-domain-1.0.0-mule-application-template.jar`+

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Copy the Maven artifact to the `../domains/` folder of your running runtime distribution (for example, `gateway-proxy-domain-1.0.0-mule-application-template.jar`).+
```
GLOBALLY replace Latin abbreviations with alternative wording.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> *Tip:* Make sure that the name of the artifact and its Maven coordinates match, for example, fragment from pom.xml belonging to the API gateway domain template:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ensure that the name of the artifact and its Maven coordinates match:
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<groupId>com.mulesoft.anypoint</groupId>
<artifactId>gateway-proxy-domain</artifactId>
<version>1.0.0</version>
<packaging>mule-domain</packaging>
----
. Customize the domain template to fit your usage scenarios.

> When referencing a domain, Mule reads the domain Maven coordinates from the API Proxy pom.xml file and looks for an already deployed domain with the same semantic name +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When referencing a domain, Mule reads the domain Maven coordinates from the API proxy pom.xml file and looks for an already-deployed domain with the same name. +
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> For example, in the case of API gateway domain with the version specified in the previous example, the semantic name is: `gateway-proxy-domain-1.0.0-mule-domain`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, in the case of an API gateway domain with the version specified in the previous example, the name is `gateway-proxy-domain-1.0.0-mule-domain`.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> For a proxy to leverage the domain, you must make sure that the domain template is specified in the API Proxy pom.xml as a provided dependency. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a proxy to leverage the domain, you must ensure that the domain template is specified in the API proxy pom.xml as a provided dependency:
```
GLOBALLY replace "make sure" with "ensure," to ease translation.
Use colon here rather than "Example:" below.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> Example:

Reviewer 3: omit
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.anypoint</groupId>
    <artifactId>gateway-proxy-domain</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
    <classifier>mule-domain</classifier>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

== Avoiding Port Conflicts

> To successfully register an API, you must deploy the API Proxy to a Mule instance using a unique endpoint URL. Automatically generated proxies use the path: `+http://0.0.0.0:8081+`. +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To successfully register an API, you must deploy the API proxy to a Mule instance using a unique endpoint URL. Automatically generated proxies use the path `+http://0.0.0.0:8081+`. +
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> To avoid a conflict when running multiple proxies using the same domain, make sure that the proxy paths are unique. Servers try to expose every interface, privileging the most declarative ones. For example, `local_ip` is privileged against `localhost`.

Reviewer 3: "privilege" is not a verb. I think you mean "promoting" or otherwise favoring?
```suggestion
To avoid conflict when running multiple proxies using the same domain, ensure that the proxy paths are unique. Servers try to expose every interface, but they promote the most declarative ones. For example, `local_ip` is favored over `localhost`.
```
I also don't understand what "the most declarative interface" means. Clarify?

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> Additionally, if you have multiple domains deployed on the same Mule, each listener configuration must have a unique port for all domains to be successfully deployed and available to the deployed proxies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, if you have multiple domains deployed on the same Mule instance, each listener configuration must have a unique port for all domains to be successfully deployed and available to the deployed proxies.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> === API Gateway Domain template

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== API Gateway Domain Template
```

> If you choose to download your API Proxy and configure it manually on your end, you may use the *API Gateway domain template*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you choose to download and configure your API proxy manually, you may use the API Gateway domain template.
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> The https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/gateway-proxy-domain/[API Gateway domain template] is configured to have a shared HTTP listener configuration ("api-proxy-listener-http") listening on the 8081 port. You can also have a shared HTTPs listener configuration ("api-proxy-listener-https"). To use the configuration, you must uncomment the code and configure the TLS context.

Reviewer 3: "To use either configuration"?

Reviewer 3: Note that in the same text below, "the TLS context" is replaced by "your certificates and passwords."

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

* Available listeners configs:
+
** `api-proxy-listener-http`:
The listener configuration for HTTP communications. This configuration binds to all interfaces and uses port 8081 by default
** `api-proxy-listener-https`:
The listener configuration for HTTPS communications. This configuration binds to all interfaces +

> To use it you must uncomment code from your API Gateway domain template and configure your certificates and passwords.

Reviewer 3: This repeats the names and definitions already provided in the text above it. How about something like this:

"The `api-proxy-listener-http` listener configuration binds to all interfaces and uses port 8081 by default. The `api-proxy-listener-https`listener configuration binds to all interfaces.+

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> This domain has a `config.properties` file defined. This resource allows you to define settings dynamically without having to recompile the domain. +

Reviewer 3: This domain or This template?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This domain includes a define `config.properties` file. This resource enables you to define settings dynamically, without having to recompile the domain. +
```

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

> File Properties:

Reviewer 3: Consider replacing with a complete sentence that ends with a colon and makes clear how the following info relates to that directly above.

Reviewer: Done! Thanks!

+
image::proxy-domain-support-bb01e.png[]

After saving the API Proxy configuration, you may:

* Deploy the API Proxy to the selected target (*Settings*, under *Deployment Configuration*).

or

* Download the API Proxy (*Actions*) and edit it in Anypoint Studio to customize your target domain, before deploying it to the selected target.

==== Setting up a Domain for the first time

> * Download a domain template from Exchange. For example, you may download the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.examples/gateway-proxy-domain/[API Gateway domain template]

Reviewer 2: It should be noted that a custom domain developed by user can be used as well. In that case, we can mention that HTTP Listener config should have a particular name (I don't remember which name are we using)

Author: Done.
